WELCOME TO
THE THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11TH 20
25 MEETING OF THE ANN HARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
I'M CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN
AND THE TIME IS SEVEN O'CLOCK.
>> THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
IN PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY
PUBLIC COMMENT CAN BE MADE IN
PERSON ON ZOOME OR VIA
TELEPHONE TO SPEAK DURING ANY
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE CALL TOLL
FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
OR TWO ONE THREE THREE THREE
EIGHT EIGHT FOUR SEVEN SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
>> THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON QUIéN CHANNEL 16,
AT&T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT EIGHT TO AT ORGA
WATCH C10.
HERE'S AN OVERVIEW OF THE
SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR EACH
HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
FIRST PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION
FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED NOW OF COURSE WE
DON'T HAVE ANY HEARINGS TODAY
BUT I JUST INCLUDED THAT IN
CASE ANYONE WAS CURIOUS WHO WAS
WATCHING US.
SO THE NEXT STEP IS TO CALL THE
ROLE.
>> SO MARIJANA THE POLICE
COMMISSIONER RIGHT THEN I'M
HERE COMMISSIONER KAPLIN HERE,
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE,
COMMISSIONER ROTH PRESENT
COMMISSIONER SMITH PRESENT
COMMISSIONER CARTER HERE,
COMMISSIONER LISBET HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THIS IS GREAT.
WE'VE GOT THE WHOLE THE WHOLE
CREW HERE TONIGHT AND SO WE'LL
GO ON TO THE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA AND I'M JUST WONDERING
IF THERE'S ANY CHANGES,
DELETIONS OR OK, I'M NOT SEEING
ANY SO HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED NEXT
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA TO REQUEST TO
SPEAK OF LISTENING BY PHONE
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOUR VIDEO
CONFERENCING USE THE RAISE HAND
BUTTON.
>> SO THIS WOULD BE WHEN PUBLIC
COMMENT HAPPENS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE OR NO
.
>> VERY GOOD.
NO ONE IS APPROACHING THE
PODIUM SO WE WILL MOVE TO ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND THERE'S
NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THERE'S NO HEARINGS.
SO WE'RE JUST GOING TO MOVE
RIGHT AHEAD TO G NEW BUSINESS
AND THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE'RE
HERE TODAY TO TAKE CARE OF .
>> AND JIWON IS APPROVAL OF THE
TWENTY TWENTY SIX MEETING
CALENDAR.
>> SO I'LL JUST HAND IT OVER TO
MARIJANA IF YOU WANT TO PRESENT
THE CALENDAR.
>> YES, I HAVE A COPY OF THE
CALENDAR IN YOUR PACKET.
SAME GENERAL STRUCTURE AS EVERY
YEAR SECOND THURSDAY OF EVERY
MONTH FOR THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETINGS.
NONE OF THOSE HAVE CHANGED DUE
TO ANY HOLIDAYS OR ELECTIONS OR
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THOSE ARE ALL THE SAME REVIEW
COMMITTEE THE MONDAY BEFORE THE
THURSDAY MEETING THERE IS ONE
CHANGE I BELIEVE FOR LABOR DAY
IN SEPTEMBER AND THEN YOU HAVE
THE NOON IN THE FIVE P.M.
DEPENDING ON HOW DARK IT GETS
OUTSIDE AND THEN APPLICATIONS
ARE DUE IN STREAM THREE FRIDAYS
BEFORE THE THURSDAY MEETING AND
THOSE DATES ARE IN THERE AS
THERE'S A LITTLE CHANGE IN JUNE
FOR JUNETEENTH.
>> BUT OTHERWISE THEY DON'T
REALLY FOLLOW THAT STRUCTURE.
VERY GOOD.
ANY QUESTIONS ON THE CALENDAR
COMMENTS?
>> OK, LET'S APPROVE THE DO YOU
HAVE TO MAKE A MOTION OR ARE WE
JUST LET'S HAVE A MOTION ON THE
TABLE THROUGH YEAH.
>> SECOND THAT'S GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THIS PLEASE SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
>> OK, THE CALENDAR HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
>> DID THAT ALL SOUND GOOD
ENOUGH THAT SOUNDS GREAT?
OK, WE ALSO HAD SOME MINUTES
THAT WE CAN APPROVE AND THOSE
WERE FOR THE NOVEMBER 13TH
MEETING SO I'M SURE EVERYONE
TOOK A LOOK AT THOSE AND I'M
WONDERING IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMENTS, CHANGES.
>> VERY GOOD.
I'M NOT SEEING ANY SO THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED AND AS ALWAYS, THANK
YOU TO BRITTANY ALEXANDER FROM
THE CITY FOR PROVIDING THE
MINUTES AND THE AGENDA FOR THE
MEETING.
IT'S POSSIBLE THAT COURTNEY
MANOR ALSO HELPED AS SHE OFTEN
DOES SOMETIMES IT'S HARD TO TO
TO TELL BUT ANYWAY, THANK YOU
ONE AND ALL FOR ALL THE HELP AT
THE CITY AND NOW WE'LL MOVE ON
TO REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS.
I HAD KIND OF AN UNOFFICIAL
REPORT SINCE WE YOU KNOW, WE
DID A MUCH DISCUSSED
HERE.
>> I YOU KNOW, WE IT'S IT'S
CONCERNING THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN THAT I'M SURE
EVERYONE'S FAMILIAR WITH AND I
WENT THROUGH IT YOU KNOW, I GET
QUESTIONS FROM MY NEIGHBORS AND
I'M GUESSING YOU GUYS DO TOO,
YOU KNOW, MOSTLY LIKE SPECIFIC
TO HISTORIC DISTRICT THINGS.
>> SO I JUST WENT THROUGH AND
LOOKED FOR DOES THAT PLAN
MENTION HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
THERE'S JUST TWO THINGS I'M
GOING TO READ JUST SO WE ALL
KIND OF KNOW THERE WAS JUST
REALLY TWO TWO MENTIONS AND ONE
WAS KIND OF A LISTENING LIKE WE
WE HEARD YOU THIS IS WHAT YOU
SAID AND THEN THE OTHER ONE IS
MORE OF LIKE YOU KNOW HOW HOW
THE THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
ACTUALLY FITS INTO THE PLAN.
>> SO THE FIRST ONE THE FIRST
MENTION IS JUST LET'S SEE IT.
I GOT IT ON PAGE 39 HERE AND
IT'S IT'S REGARDING A LISTENING
ACTIVITY THAT THE CITY WAS
LISTENING TO THE PARTICIPANT
AND IT SAYS PARTICIPANTS CALLED
FOR A BALANCED APPROACH BETWEEN
DEVELOPMENT AND PRESERVING WHAT
MAKES ANN ARBOR A GREAT PLACE
TO LIVE.
>> WHILE THERE WAS GENERAL
AGREEMENT THAT INCREASED
DENSITY IS NECESSARY TO ACHIEVE
THE CITY'S GOALS FOR MORE
HOUSING, MORE WALKABLE RATHER
THAN CAR DEPENDENT
NEIGHBORHOODS AND PRESERVED
OPEN SPACE, MANY ALSO
EMPHASIZED THE NEED TO ENSURE
COMMUNITY AMENITIES GREEN
SPACES, HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND
THE SCALE OF NEW DEVELOPMENT IS
CONSIDERED.
SO THERE IT IS HISTORIC
DISTRICTS WAS WAS HEARD BY THE
PEOPLE CREATING THE DOCUMENT AS
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE WANT TO
MAKE SURE PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR
WANT TO MAKE SURE OUR ARE STILL
PRESENT.
>> AND THEN THE OTHER ONE IS IS
REGARDING IT'S IN ONE OF THE
GOALS OF THE PLAN GOAL ONE IS
INCREASE THE SUPPLY.
I MEAN THAT SEEMS OBVIOUS AND
SO THAT WAS WHY IT'S GOAL ONE
I'M SURE AND IT'S JUST IT'S
INTERESTING WHAT THEY SAY IN
HERE ABOUT HISTORIC DISTRICTS
SAYS HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES AND DEVELOPMENT WILL
CONTINUE TO FOLLOW THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
ESTABLISHED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION, THE CITY'S
FIFTEEN HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE
LEGALLY PROTECTED WITH THE
PURPOSE TO PRESERVE THE CITY'S
BUILDINGS AND PLACES
OF CULTURAL AND HISTORICAL
SIGNIFICANCE FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS AND AS AN OUTCOME
FROM DECADES OF LEGISLATIVE
ACTIONS OF THE CITY.
>> GREAT, HOWEVER, IN THE
EFFORT TO PROTECT THEY ALSO
REGULATE NEW DEVELOPMENT IN A
MANNER THAT CAN BE MORE
ILLUMINATING, MORE LIMITING
THAN UNDERLYING ZONING
REGULATIONS ALONE.
AS A RESULT, WHILE THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE SOME OF THE
CITY'S MOST BELOVED, THEY ARE
OFTEN LIMITED IN PROVIDING NEW
HOUSING UNITS COMPARABLE TO
SIMILARLY ZONED PROPERTY
ELSEWHERE.
SO THAT'S SORT OF A BALANCED
STATEMENT.
THEY'RE LIKE THEY'RE THEY'RE
THERE AND WE ACKNOWLEDGE THEM
BUT THEY'RE MAKING OUR JOB MORE
DIFFICULT BASICALLY WHICH IT'S
A DECENT SUMMARY ACTUALLY
OF WHAT IS GOING ON HERE.
SO I JUST WANTED TO READ THOSE
JUST SO IT'S IN YOUR BACK
POCKET.
>> YOU KNOW, WHEN SOMEONE
APPROACHES YOU I WAS NOT
INTENDING THIS TO BE LIKE A BIG
DISCUSSION ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THE
PLAN.
>> BUT IF SOMEONE ELSE WANTS TO
COMMENT I'D BE HAPPY TO HEAR IT
OR WE CAN MOVE ON.
>> LET'S I THOUGHT I HEARD
SOMETHING FOR A SECOND.
>> OK, LET'S MOVE ON.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO ASSIGNMENTS.
>> SO WE HAD AN ASSIGNMENT FROM
WHOEVER WHOEVER WAS ASSIGNED
AND VOLUNTEERED.
I'M NOT SURE WHO IT WAS.
>> IT WAS YOU AND STEVE.
YEAH.
ANYWAY, THANK YOU BOTH FOR
VOLUNTEERING AND SO NOW WE'LL
ASK AGAIN.
>> LOOKS LIKE THE MEETING'S ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8TH.
SO MAKE SURE THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO BE AROUND FOR THAT AND THEN
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO VOLUNTEER
FOR THE MONDAY JANUARY 5TH AT
NOON WE WOULD BE THRILLED.
SO I WILL BE OUT OF TOWN FOR
BOTH.
YEAH, OK, I CAN PROBABLY MAKE
IT I CAN MAKE THURSDAY FOR SURE
I WILL BE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE TOO.
OK THANK JENNA.
THANK YOU.
>> SO WE'VE GOT COMMISSIONER
CARTER AS ANYONE ELSE UH I'M
INTERESTED TO BE IN THE OFFICE.
>> YEAH YOU'RE IN THE OFFICE.
THAT'S THAT'S WHY THE NEWS THE
THE NOON THE NOON MEETING'S NOT
FOR EVERYONE BUT I WILL I
VOLUNTEER TO DO IT.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
YES OF COURSE.
OK, SO NOW MOVING RIGHT ALONG
TO REPORTS FROM STAFF ARE THERE
ANY REPORTS FROM STAFF?
I'LL JUST SAY SINCE YOU BROUGHT
UP THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WE
ARE COLLECTING FEEDBACK AT
ENGAGED AT 8:00 TO AFGHAN
ENGAGED PAGE.
WE'RE ACCEPTING ANY PUBLIC
COMMENT ANY FEEDBACK ONLINE FOR
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UNTIL
JANUARY 5TH.
AND THEN IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
IN COMING IN PERSON, THE NEXT
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING IS
DECEMBER 16TH.
THAT'S NEXT TUESDAY AT FIVE
THIRTY PM AND THEY'LL BE
DISCUSSING THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MARIJANA L CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS NO.
OK, OK WE'VE GOT A COUPLE
OF THINGS LISTED ON THE AGENDA
HERE FROM COMMUNICATIONS.
I'M GUESSING THERE AREN'T ANY
JUST VARIOUS COMMUNICATIONS.
>> NO.
AND THEN WHAT IS THE PLANNING
ACTIVITIES REPORT?
YEAH SO PLANNING SERVICES IS
TRYING TO GET BETTER AT PUTTING
OUT OUR ANNUAL REPORTS FOR OUR
DEPARTMENT ACTIVITIES AND SO
WE'RE WORKING TO MAKE IT A BI
ANNUAL REPORT RIGHT NOW AND SO
THE ONE THAT WAS MOST RECENTLY
PUBLISHED IS THE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE TO TWENTY FOUR PLANNING
SERVICES REPORT GIVES AN
OVERVIEW OF THE DEPARTMENT WHO
RETIRED WHO WAS HIRED.
>> IT ALSO GIVES AN OVERVIEW
OF EVERYTHING THAT WE'VE
PROCESSED IN THE PAST TWO YEARS
OR TWENTY THREE TO TWENTY FOUR
WHICH INCLUDES THE DC.
SO THE NUMBER OF CIOS IS WHAT
WENT THROUGH STAFF APPROVAL,
WHAT WENT TO THE COMMISSION
THAT DOES THE SAME FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS, THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO IT'S JUST A SNAPSHOT OF WHAT
THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT HAS
DONE OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS.
>> GREAT.
WAS THAT ATTACHED TO THE
MEETING?
I LOOKED IT WAS REATTACHED
EARLIER TODAY SO YES, WE
NOTICED THAT IT WAS NOT THERE.
SO THE THE AGENDA IS
REPUBLISHED WITH THE ATTACHMENT
SO IT SHOULD NOW BE THERE AND
IT'S JUST I THINK IT'S LIKE
FIFTEEN PAGES AND JUST THERE'S
SOME SOME GRAPHICS SOME
INFORMATION JUST IF YOU'RE
CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT WE DO FROM
EIGHT TO FIVE.
>> GREAT.
AND IS THAT THE ONLY PLACE TO
GET IT WITHIN THE MEETING I'M
SURE IS THERE I'M SURE IT'S
ONLINE SOMEWHERE BUT I COULDN'T
TELL YOU OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD
WHERE IT IS IT'S BEEN PUBLISHED
IT'S BEEN PRESENTED TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND IT'S
GOING TO ALL OF THE OTHER
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS AS WELL.
>> FANTASTIC.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, WELL THAT BRINGS US TO THE
END OF THE MEETING HERE, FOLKS.
>> SO LET'S NOW ADJOURN THE
DECEMBER 11TH TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE MEETING AT SEVEN THIRTEEN
PM THANK YOU